Thesis Title: Body-relative Navigation Guidance using Uncalibrated Cameras
Author: Olivier Koch, koch@csail.mit.edu
Date: 9-Feb-2010

Abstract

The ability to navigate through the world is an essential capability to humans.
In a variety of situations, people do not have the time, the opportunity or the
capability to learn the layout of the environment before visiting an area.
Examples include soldiers in the field entering an unknown building,
firefighters responding to an emergency, or a visually impaired person
walking through the city. In absence of external source of localization
(such as GPS), the system must rely on internal sensing to provide
navigation guidance to the user. In order to address real-world
situations, the method must provide spatially extended, temporally
consistent navigation guidance, through cluttered and dynamic environments.

While recent research has largely focused on metric methods based on calibrated
cameras, the work presented in this thesis demonstrates a novel approach to
navigation using uncalibrated cameras.  During the first visit of the
environment, the method builds a topological representation of the user's
exploration path, which we refer to as the place graph. The method then provides
navigation guidance from any place to any other in the explored environment. On
one hand, a localization algorithm determines the location of the user in the
graph. On the other hand, a rotation guidance algorithm provides a directional
cue towards the next graph node in the user's body frame.

Our method makes little assumption about the environment except that it contains
descriptive visual features. It requires no intrinsic or extrinsic camera
calibration, and relies instead on a method that learns the correlation between
user rotation and feature correspondence across cameras. We validate our
approach using several ground truth datasets. In addition, we show that our
approach is capable of guiding a robot equipped with a local obstacle avoidance
capability through real, cluttered environments. Finally, we validate our system
with nine untrained users through several kilometers of indoor environments.


    
